In this demonstration, we'll revisit
an earlier producer configuration and use
some of the configuration options we just learned about.
Let's close out Sample 3,
and we'll open Sample 4.
So we're going to play with some of the producer settings the same way that we play with
some of that Kafka topic settings in an earlier exercise.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to
actually set the linger milliseconds on our sample.
First, I'm going to move this window so that we can
see both the terminal and or code window.
So we're going to set linger milliseconds.
What are linger milliseconds?
Well, let's take a look at the documentation.
So this is librdkafka settings.
LibrdKafka is the underlying library that powers the confluent Kafka-Python library.
So its shares all of the same configuration as the confluent Kafka-Python library.
So we were looking for linger milliseconds.
What's great about this documentation is not only does it tell you whether this
applies to a producer in this case that's what P stands for.
It will also if that configuration option applies to a consumer or a topic.
It'll tell you what the default is.
So in this case a half a second,
and it'll also give you a description of what this does.
Essentially, what linger milliseconds is,
is how long the underlying client library is going to wait before
it sends the message is to off to the actual broker.
So again, the default was 500 milliseconds or a half second.
Let's set this to something larger say 10,000 milliseconds.
This is the equivalent of 10 seconds and see what happens.
Now, I want to point something out here.
I have this producer configured to run as fast as it possibly can.
Because of that I've added this little function call down here producer.
poll(0). What does that mean?
Well, because we're producing so much data to Kafka so fast,
all we're doing is sending it essentially some very very simple string data,
we actually need to call the poll so that we actually knowledge to
the underlying client library that the messages have been delivered.
Otherwise, it will overflow its queue very quickly.
As you'll see, we'll probably still overflow that queue pretty fast.
That's why we're going to tweak these settings.
So you can see running,
and you can see queue full.
So this is configured to print out when it gets to a million messages.
So we weren't able to produce some million messages before things overflowed.
Now, why might that be?
Well, if we look at our settings,
we know that the linger milliseconds was now spend 10 seconds instead of a half second.
So this means that our underlying client is going to
wait a longer time before actually sends messages to the Kafka broker.
So in essence, we're actually going to build up more data on
the local machine than we may have historically done.
So how can we change that?
Well, there are two settings through that we could take a look at.
Queue buffering max messages and max kilobytes.
Well, what do these settings do?
These settings configure the underlying Kafka client library to
allow us to hold a certain number of messages or a certain amount of kilobytes of data,
in addition to what the default settings are.
So let's take a look at that in the settings real quickly.
I'm just going to copy this, we're going to pull that up.
So we can see the default here is to hold a 100,000 messages.
This is the maximum number of messages allowed in the producer queue.
That means that we're only allowed to hold a 100,000 before sending.
So if we produce a 100,000 messages before this 10 seconds elapsed,
we would be out of buffer space.
So that's likely because the number of batch messages number
of messages that we want to send it a batch at
once is probably not set to match the same.
So let's set this differently.
Let's say that we want to batch out 10,000 messages at a time.
Let's see if that helps us.
So this means that the underlying client library will either wait 10 seconds to send
the messages or wait until it has 10,000 messages
before sending the sentiment data out to Kafka.
You can see this time we didn't have a queue full.
So again, why did it succeed this time when it didn't last time?
Well, again the reason is that we told it test
weight either 10 seconds or until it has 10,000 messages.
So we know that at the queue buffering max messages is a
100,000 but we set the batch number of messages to 10,000.
We're never going to hit that 100,000 ceiling.
So we'll never overrun the queue.
Again, if I comment this out,
we'd start to fail again.
Another approach I could take would be to increase
this to some significantly larger number of messages.
Say we have one million,
can make it 10 million or a 100 million.
Then it would probably run for
a while before a crash but it probably would eventually crash again.
So the point of this exercise
is really to show that there are a number of options that you can
tweak and that you typically can't just create a producer and hope that it will work,
there are usually some configuration options that you need to consider on your end.
Now, as I said earlier,
pre-optimization isn't always the best idea.
So what I would recommend is that you start with these numbers
and try to measure out what you think is appropriate for your given situation.
I don't think that think about is the maximum amount
of data you want to keep in memory at once.
For example, I believe we can take a look at what
this is set to and convert that into megabytes.
How much does the confluent Python library,
excuse me, the confluent library it allow us to keep in memory.
So it defaults to one gigabyte of data in memory.
That's pretty significant overhead and
depending on your application that may not be appropriate.
If you're running on limited hardware,
you might want to something smaller say 1,000 kilobytes or 10,000.
Be careful though because if this number is hit before you send the data to Kafka,
you will have a queue overflow.
One more final thing before I move on.
We're going to go ahead and specify a compression type.
So I'm going to clear these other options out for just a moment,
and we're going to set the compression type equal to Lz4.
That's how easy it is to add compression to your producer.
We can go ahead and run that,
and you can see we're producing messages.
We still have the same problem that we encountered earlier
because we removed our settings where the queue is full.
But that's how you would add compression.